=head1 NAME

Note::Page


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Note Page object- represents a page being loaded.


=head1 COMMONLY USED ATTRIBUTES

$page->form() - Form input parameters (GET and POST combined)

$page->content() - Hashref of data to pass into template ('page' key set to page object by default)

$page->value() - Hashref to pass data between $page object methods

$page->session() - Hashref of global session keyed by client cookie (call $page->session_write() when changed)

=head1 OTHER ATTRIBUTES

$page->app() - Reference to current Note::App object

$page->storage() - Persistent data storage handles

$page->root() - App root

$page->hostname() - Current HTTP hostname of request

$page->port() - Current HTTP port of request

$page->template() - Current template (Note::Template object)

$page->remote_ip() - IP address of remote requestor

$page->request() - Current Plack::Request object

$page->response() - Current Plack::Response object

$page->env() - Unix environment variables hash

$page->body() - Reply body (scalar ref)

=head1 METHODS

=head2 apply

 $page->apply($template, $data);

Apply a template with page reference

Parameters:

$template - template name

$data - data fields for template

=head2 button

 $page->button(
  'command' => 'cmd_name',
  'args' => ['a', 'b'],
  'text' => 'Button 1',
  'opts' => {
    'onclick' => q|do_something('jscode');|     # avoid " (double-quotes) within HTML tag args
  },
 );

 $page->button(
  'command' => 'cmd_name_2',
  'image' => '/img/image_path.jpg',
 );

Generate a button for placement on a HTML page

Parameters:

command - Command name (string)

args - Command arguments (arrayref)

opts - HTML extra attributes (hashref)

contents - HTML tag inner contents (string)

tag - HTML tag name (string) - default: "button"

type - HTML input tag type (string) - default: "submit"

image - Image url for image buttons

text - Button text for text buttons


=head2 field

 $page->field(
   'type' => ' ... ',
   'name' => 'field_name_1',
   'command' => 'cmd_name',
 );

Input fields associated with specific commands.

Field Types: text, checkbox, select, radio, textarea, password, file, hidden

Text Field:

 $page->field(
    'command' => 'command_name',
    'type' => 'text',
    'name' => 'field_name',
    'value' => 'initial value', # optional
    'opts' => {  'style' => 'width: 10px;'  },
        # optional, parameters passed directly to <input> tag.
 );

Checkbox:

 $page->field(
    'command' => 'command_name',
    'type' => 'checkbox',
    'name' => 'field_name',
    'checked' => 1,
 );

Pop-Up Select Box:

 $page->field(
    'command' => 'command_name',
    'type' => 'select',
    'name' => 'field_name',
    'select' => [      # the select field ("field_name") will return the second item in these arrayrefs, item [1]
        ['Option 1', 'opt_1'],
        ['Option 2', 'opt_2'],
        [ \'=SEPARATOR=' ], # use a SCALAR REF for a separator
        ['Option 3', 'opt_3'],
    ],
    'selected' => 'opt_2', # defaults to first item
 );

Radio Buttons:

 $page->field(
    'command' => 'command_name',
    'type' => 'radio',
    'name' => 'field_name',
    'value' => 'opt_A',
    'checked' => 1,
 ). ' A'. '<br/>';
 $page->field(
    'command' => 'command_name',
    'type' => 'radio',
    'name' => 'field_name',
    'value' => 'opt_B',
    'checked' => 0,
 ). ' B';


=head2 hidden

 $page->hidden($data);

Add a hidden field HTML tag.

$data - Hashref of key/value pairs to create hidden input tags for. One separate tag will be created for each pair.

=head2 init

 init();

Method to run page initialization. This is automatically called first when the page is loaded.


=head2 link

 $page->link(
   'command' => 'cmd_name'.
   'args' => ['arg1', 'arg2'],
   'text' => 'Link Text',
 );

Generate a link with an embedded command.

Parameters:

command - Command name (string)

args - Command arguments list (arrayref)

text - Link text (string)

query - URL query params (hashref)

name - HTML anchor name (string) - <a name="foobar" ...

path - URL path component (string)

host - URL host component (string)

proto - URL protocol component (string) - "http" or "https" most likely

=head2 load

 load();

Method to load the page contents. This is automatically called after init() and an optional command is run.


=head2 param

 param();

Internal get_params() method. Do not use.

=head2 redirect

 $page->redirect($url);

Redirect the browser to another URL.


=head2 run_command

 run_command();

Run a command, if there is one specified.


=head2 session_write

 $page->session_write();

Indicate that the session has been updated so it can be persistently stored.


=head2 style

 $page->style($data);

Generate CSS stylesheet elements from a hashref.

 {
   'border-collapse' => 'collapse',
   'border-spacing' => '0',
   'border-width' => '0',
 }
 
Becomes:

  border-collapse: collapse;
  border-spacing: 0;
  border-width: 0;

=head2 url

 $page->url($params);

Build a URL (based on the current page path).

If $params is empty it will return the current full path (including protocol and host)

Parameters:

query - URL query params (hashref)

path - URL path component (string)

host - URL host component (string)

proto - URL protocol component (string) - "http" or "https" most likely

port - URL port component (string)


=cut

